dryvr_analysis/README.rst, before:

#################################################
Platform-Dependent Analysis on Motion using DryVR
#################################################

#. Collect raw traces recorded as ROS bags from Gazebo simulation.

   * A raw trace currently consists of at lease a sequence of timestamped waypoints and another sequence of timestamped
     states.
   * The sequence of timestamped waypoints indicates when each waypoint is sent to the vehicle.
     We send a new waypoint only after the previous waypoint is reached.
     Reaching a waypoint is determined by staying within a distance to the waypoint for a short duration tolerance.
     (The distance and duration tolerance for Hector Quadrotor are defined by its builtin Pose action server.)
   * The sequence of timestamped states is periodically sampled *independent of the waypoints*.
     It contains the ground truth state provided by Gazebo.
     A state includes position, orientation, linear velocity and angular velocity of the vehicle model.

#. Generate traces for DryVR from a raw ROS bag trace

   * The sequence of timestamped states is divided into segments based on the timestamp of each waypoint.
     We **assume** a segment is the behavior of the black-box dynamical system under the mode specified by the waypoint,
     and the initial state is the last sampled state at or before the timestamp of the waypoint.
   * TODO


.. note::

    Currently all scripts under this folder are only for Hector Quadrotor model in Gazebo simulation.
    In particular, we use the builtin PID-based position controller with the following PID parameter values.

    .. code-block:: yaml

        position:
            type: hector_quadrotor_controllers/PositionController
            x: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}
            y: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}
            z: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 0.5}
            yaw: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}

    See https://github.com/tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg/hector_quadrotor for Hector Quadrotor,
    and check ``hector_quadrotor_controllers/params/controller.yaml`` for configuring PID values.

Commit message:

Update README and add skeleton file for computing reachtube

dryvr_analysis/README.rst, after:

#################################################
Platform-Dependent Analysis on Motion using DryVR
#################################################

#. Collect raw traces recorded as ROS bags from Gazebo simulation.

   * A raw trace currently consists of at lease a sequence of timestamped waypoints and another sequence of timestamped
     states.
   * The sequence of timestamped waypoints indicates when each waypoint is sent to the vehicle.
     We send a new waypoint only after the previous waypoint is reached.
     Reaching a waypoint is determined by staying within a distance to the waypoint for a short duration tolerance.
     (The distance and duration tolerance for Hector Quadrotor are defined by its builtin Pose action server.)
   * The sequence of timestamped states is periodically sampled *independent of the waypoints*.
     It contains the ground truth state provided by Gazebo.
     A state includes position, orientation, linear velocity and angular velocity of the vehicle model.

#. Generate traces for DryVR from a raw ROS bag trace and store as a Python pickle file.

   * The sequence of timestamped states is divided into segments based on the timestamp of each waypoint.
     We **assume** a segment is the behavior of the black-box dynamical system under the mode specified by the waypoint,
     and the initial state is the last sampled state at or before the timestamp of the waypoint.
   * The output for each bag file is a sequence of pairs of one waypoint and one trace.
   * The output is stored as a pickle file to remove dependency on ROS packages in the following steps.

#. Compute reachtube using DryVR

    * TODO


******
Usages
******

#. Collect ROS bags.
   To customize the simulation, look into the arguments for ``test_hector_quad_random_waypoints.launch``
   in our ``cym_device`` package.

   .. code-block:: shell

      ./collect_rosbag_trace.sh

#. Convert ROS bags to Python pickle files.
   Given a input file named ``file.bag``, it generates an output file named ``file.bag.pickle``.

   .. code-block:: shell

      ./convert_to_pickle.py bags/follow_waypoints_2020-11-20-12-03-57.bag

#. Generate reachtube. TODO


.. note::

    Currently all scripts under this folder are only for Hector Quadrotor model in Gazebo simulation.
    In particular, we use the builtin PID-based position controller with the following PID parameter values.

    .. code-block:: yaml

        position:
            type: hector_quadrotor_controllers/PositionController
            x: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}
            y: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}
            z: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 0.5}
            yaw: {p: 2.0, i: 1.0, d: 1.0}

    See https://github.com/tu-darmstadt-ros-pkg/hector_quadrotor for Hector Quadrotor,
    and check ``hector_quadrotor_controllers/params/controller.yaml`` for configuring PID values.
